OK so we have access to the lifecycle of react when creating a component we have the before the actual
render and then the after component it's rendered.
Right.
That's good.
So we also have access to the Whenever we act.
It's updating a state.
It's pretty much the same idea.
Right now we have the component will mount.
So with the update it's going to be just real simple.
It's going to be components.
We'll update we're going to do that.
So it's going to be component.
And then just will everything come case and then update.
Right.
So when a call component would update is going to do console log before it gets updated.
So this function is going to trigger before updating a state.
So I'm going to say Before Update right since we have the before.
We also have the after.
So is going to be components components and then that update just follows the same rules that components
did mount.
So it's going to be update.
Right.
And in SSB-B update I'm to I'm going to do a console log.
And then after update.
Right.
Makes sense right.
So now I need something to change the state.
I'm going to add a button right here.
Get it at something or do something simple.
It's going to say Dev and Dave is going to have a click listener.
It's going to be unclick just like we did before.
And this is going to be a fad or a function and it's going to be it's going to update the state.
So we're going to do this.
That said state and city state we're going to change the title just something simple.
We're going to say tidal and this is going to be called to something else that's fine.
Something else right might just make it everything in one time.
OK.
Let's get.
So if a reload the page.
Let me just put something click to change right.
So if I clicked this div is going to update the state it's going to change the title for something else.
It's going to show it right here on the screen because we are using the state.
And then it's going to go and trigger that before updating.
And once it's updated it's going to just trigger the console log after update.
OK so I'm going to go look at something else and you get before update and then just after update.
So again whenever we update state we have the access of doing something else.
Let's say that we have an application where the user needs to click on something and then you just need
to check some data and do after something after the state gets updated.
So this is going to useful.
We have one more and this one is not that simple.
So we have one that says shoot skin it starts like that is going to be shrewd.
There you go should and it's going to be component update shit component update just like that.
But this one is it's something else we're going to do something else with this one.
This should component update.
It takes two arguments.
It's going to be the next prompts and then the second argument is going to be the next state.
So this arguments are going to be the next property is the next data that are sending.
And the next state of course makes sense.
So this one this function it's always going to return false.
So I'm going to say return.
I'm sorry it's going to always return true.
True.
If I say return false it's not going to update.
We can force the component not to update with the shift component update.
And of course we can do more I'm going to put falls right here just to prove this.
Going to click change and nothing happens.
So since this one is returning false we are just preventing for the for the component to update.
So if I just return true and redo the application I'm going to click change and it's going to pass.
Now let me just comment this again.
Go right here.
I'm going to do.
Lock and again a console.
That does not state that title.
OK.
This dot state DOT DOT title right.
So this is going to cancel the title The actual title.
Right click it.
We're going to get an R of course and it's going to say pulp fiction in us.
OK.
So we get the actual title before updating.
OK let's get.
Now if I say console log.
And the next state the title is going to get something else console log.
Going to be next state.
Going to just copy that title.
You never load the page going to click it get an error but we get something else.
So right here we have access to the current the current state and even though we are not updating this
one is catching the next update.
For example we're getting something else on the next state.
So with this one what we can do we can evaluate things.
I mean the current state and the next state and decide if you want to update or not.
Let's say I have a just an if statement we're going to do something simple.
Going to say if and then just nothing.
OK I'm going to evaluate something right here.
I'm going to say if next state that title because we are accessing the title is going to be trivially
equal to something else we can return false
OK if not if this is not true it's going to return true.
It's going to pass.
That's good.
So I'm going to make a tiny change.
I'm going to go right here instead of something else.
It's going to be something else seen without the.
And if I just clicked change is going to go because this one is passing a false and a.
And it's not true.
Of course there's no match.
And it returns True.
But if I just correct it and go else and I could change it's not passing.
So right here we just can evaluate the current state and the next state or some dummy data and decide
if you want to move forward in updating the state or not.
So it's really really useful.
OK.
Let's go to the next section and finish with the lifecycle.